README.md, before:

# Home Project Ledger

[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg)](https://github.com/custom-components/hacs)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/FredrikElliot/home-project-ledger.svg)](LICENSE)

A Home Assistant custom integration for tracking home renovation projects, receipts, and costs.

## Features

✨ **Track Projects** - Create and manage home renovation projects  
📸 **Receipt Management** - Upload receipt images and store metadata  
🏠 **Area Integration** - Associate projects with Home Assistant Areas  
📊 **Statistics Dashboard** - Visual charts and analytics for spending trends  
📈 **Monetary Sensors** - Automatic sensors with long-term statistics support  
🎨 **Custom Panel** - Dedicated sidebar page for managing everything  
🌍 **Translations** - Available in English and Swedish  

## Installation

### HACS (Recommended)

1. Open HACS in your Home Assistant instance
2. Go to "Integrations"
3. Click the "+" button
4. Search for "Home Project Ledger"
5. Click "Install"
6. Restart Home Assistant

### Manual Installation

1. Download the latest release
2. Copy the `custom_components/home_project_ledger` folder to your `config/custom_components` directory
3. Restart Home Assistant

## Configuration

1. Go to **Settings** → **Devices & Services**
2. Click **+ Add Integration**
3. Search for **Home Project Ledger**
4. Follow the configuration steps
5. Choose your default currency (e.g., SEK, USD, EUR)

## Usage

### Accessing the Panel

After installation, you'll find **Home Project Ledger** in your sidebar with a notebook icon.

### Creating Projects

1. Open the Home Project Ledger panel
2. Click **+ New Project**
3. Enter project name and optionally select an area
4. Click **Create Project**

### Adding Receipts

1. Open a project from the project list
2. Click **+ Add Receipt**
3. Fill in the receipt details:
   - Merchant name
   - Date
   - Total amount
   - Currency
   - Optional: Category summary
   - Optional: Upload receipt image
4. Click **Add Receipt**

### Services

The integration provides the following services:

- `home_project_ledger.create_project` - Create a new project
- `home_project_ledger.close_project` - Close a project
- `home_project_ledger.add_receipt` - Add a receipt to a project
- `home_project_ledger.update_receipt` - Update receipt details
- `home_project_ledger.delete_receipt` - Delete a receipt

### Sensors

The integration automatically creates sensors for:

- **Total House Spend** - Total spending across all projects
- **Area Spend** - Spending per Home Assistant area
- **Project Spend** - Spending per project

These sensors have the `SensorDeviceClass.MONETARY` device class and `SensorStateClass.TOTAL` state class, which enables:
- Long-term statistics recording in Home Assistant
- Integration with the Energy dashboard
- Historical trend analysis
- Use in automations with statistical triggers

### Statistics Dashboard

The built-in Statistics tab provides visual analytics similar to Home Assistant's Energy panel:

- **Spending Over Time** - Monthly spending chart with area graph
- **Spending by Project** - Bar chart showing top projects
- **Spending by Area** - Pie chart showing distribution across areas
- **Spending by Category** - Bar chart showing top expense categories
- **Spending by Merchant** - Bar chart showing top merchants

You can filter statistics by time period:
- This Month / Last Month
- Last 30 Days / Last 90 Days
- This Year / Last 12 Months
- All Time

### Dashboard Buttons

The integration provides button entities for quick access:

- **Add Receipt** (`button.add_receipt`) - Press to trigger a receipt add event
- **Open Project Ledger** (`button.open_project_ledger`) - Press to trigger a panel open event

**Adding a Quick Add Receipt button to your dashboard:**

```yaml
type: button
entity: button.add_receipt
name: Add Receipt
icon: mdi:receipt-text-plus
tap_action:
  action: navigate
  navigation_path: /home-project-ledger
```

You can also use the FAB (floating action button) inside the panel to quickly add a receipt to any project.

### Dashboard Buttons

The integration provides button entities for quick access:

- **Add Receipt** (`button.add_receipt`) - Press to trigger a receipt add event
- **Open Project Ledger** (`button.open_project_ledger`) - Press to trigger a panel open event

**Adding a Quick Add Receipt button to your dashboard:**

```yaml
type: button
entity: button.add_receipt
name: Add Receipt
icon: mdi:receipt-text-plus
tap_action:
  action: navigate
  navigation_path: /home-project-ledger
```

You can also use the FAB (floating action button) inside the panel to quickly add a receipt to any project.

## Data Storage

- **Project and receipt metadata**: Stored in `.storage/home_project_ledger.*.json`
- **Receipt images**: Stored in `config/www/home_project_ledger/receipts/`

## Future Features (Not in MVP)

- 🤖 AI/OCR receipt parsing
- 💰 Project budgeting
- ☁️ Cloud sync
- 👥 Multi-household support

## Support

- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/FredrikElliot/home-project-ledger/issues)
- [Documentation](https://github.com/FredrikElliot/home-project-ledger)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Credits

Created by [@FredrikElliot](https://github.com/FredrikElliot)

Commit message:

feat: enhance button functionality with persistent notifications for receipt and panel access

README.md, after:

# Home Project Ledger

[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg)](https://github.com/custom-components/hacs)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/FredrikElliot/home-project-ledger.svg)](LICENSE)

A Home Assistant custom integration for tracking home renovation projects, receipts, and costs.

## Features

✨ **Track Projects** - Create and manage home renovation projects  
📸 **Receipt Management** - Upload receipt images and store metadata  
🏠 **Area Integration** - Associate projects with Home Assistant Areas  
📊 **Statistics Dashboard** - Visual charts and analytics for spending trends  
📈 **Monetary Sensors** - Automatic sensors with long-term statistics support  
🎨 **Custom Panel** - Dedicated sidebar page for managing everything  
🌍 **Translations** - Available in English and Swedish  

## Installation

### HACS (Recommended)

1. Open HACS in your Home Assistant instance
2. Go to "Integrations"
3. Click the "+" button
4. Search for "Home Project Ledger"
5. Click "Install"
6. Restart Home Assistant

### Manual Installation

1. Download the latest release
2. Copy the `custom_components/home_project_ledger` folder to your `config/custom_components` directory
3. Restart Home Assistant

## Configuration

1. Go to **Settings** → **Devices & Services**
2. Click **+ Add Integration**
3. Search for **Home Project Ledger**
4. Follow the configuration steps
5. Choose your default currency (e.g., SEK, USD, EUR)

## Usage

### Accessing the Panel

After installation, you'll find **Home Project Ledger** in your sidebar with a notebook icon.

### Creating Projects

1. Open the Home Project Ledger panel
2. Click **+ New Project**
3. Enter project name and optionally select an area
4. Click **Create Project**

### Adding Receipts

1. Open a project from the project list
2. Click **+ Add Receipt**
3. Fill in the receipt details:
   - Merchant name
   - Date
   - Total amount
   - Currency
   - Optional: Category summary
   - Optional: Upload receipt image
4. Click **Add Receipt**

### Services

The integration provides the following services:

- `home_project_ledger.create_project` - Create a new project
- `home_project_ledger.close_project` - Close a project
- `home_project_ledger.add_receipt` - Add a receipt to a project
- `home_project_ledger.update_receipt` - Update receipt details
- `home_project_ledger.delete_receipt` - Delete a receipt

### Sensors

The integration automatically creates sensors for:

- **Total House Spend** - Total spending across all projects
- **Area Spend** - Spending per Home Assistant area
- **Project Spend** - Spending per project

These sensors have the `SensorDeviceClass.MONETARY` device class and `SensorStateClass.TOTAL` state class, which enables:
- Long-term statistics recording in Home Assistant
- Integration with the Energy dashboard
- Historical trend analysis
- Use in automations with statistical triggers

### Statistics Dashboard

The built-in Statistics tab provides visual analytics similar to Home Assistant's Energy panel:

- **Spending Over Time** - Monthly spending chart with area graph
- **Spending by Project** - Bar chart showing top projects
- **Spending by Area** - Pie chart showing distribution across areas
- **Spending by Category** - Bar chart showing top expense categories
- **Spending by Merchant** - Bar chart showing top merchants

You can filter statistics by time period:
- This Month / Last Month
- Last 30 Days / Last 90 Days
- This Year / Last 12 Months
- All Time

### Dashboard Buttons

The integration provides button entities for quick access. When pressed, these buttons show a notification with a clickable link to the panel:

- **Home Project Ledger Add Receipt** - Shows notification with link to add a receipt
- **Home Project Ledger Open Project Ledger** - Shows notification with link to open the panel

**Recommended: Add navigation buttons to your dashboard:**

For direct navigation without notifications, use a button card with `tap_action`:

```yaml
type: button
name: Add Receipt
icon: mdi:receipt-text-plus
tap_action:
  action: navigate
  navigation_path: /home-project-ledger
```

```yaml
type: button
name: Project Ledger
icon: mdi:home-analytics
tap_action:
  action: navigate
  navigation_path: /home-project-ledger
```

**Using with browser_mod (for automation-triggered navigation):**

If you have [browser_mod](https://github.com/thomasloven/hass-browser_mod) installed, you can create automations that navigate when the button is pressed:

```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "Navigate to Project Ledger on button press"
    trigger:
      - platform: event
        event_type: home_project_ledger_open_panel
    action:
      - service: browser_mod.navigate
        data:
          path: /home-project-ledger
```

You can also use the FAB (floating action button) inside the panel to quickly add a receipt to any project.

## Data Storage

- **Project and receipt metadata**: Stored in `.storage/home_project_ledger.*.json`
- **Receipt images**: Stored in `config/www/home_project_ledger/receipts/`

## Future Features (Not in MVP)

- 🤖 AI/OCR receipt parsing
- 💰 Project budgeting
- ☁️ Cloud sync
- 👥 Multi-household support

## Support

- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/FredrikElliot/home-project-ledger/issues)
- [Documentation](https://github.com/FredrikElliot/home-project-ledger)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Credits

Created by [@FredrikElliot](https://github.com/FredrikElliot)
